frontend/README.md, before:

# AI Chat Frontend

A modern, responsive chat interface built with Next.js 14+ and TypeScript for interacting with AI models through a FastAPI backend.

## Features

- **Collapsible Sidebar**: Manage multiple chat sessions with titles and dates
- **Real-time Streaming**: See AI responses as they're being generated
- **Image Support**: Upload and view images in conversations with lightbox
- **Settings Management**: Configure developer prompts, system prompts, and model selection
- **Mobile-First Design**: Responsive layout that works on all devices
- **Accessibility**: WCAG-compliant with proper ARIA labels and keyboard navigation
- **Local Storage**: Persists chat sessions and settings locally

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ 
- npm or yarn
- FastAPI backend running on `http://localhost:8000`

## Installation

1. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm install
   ```

2. **Set up environment variables** (optional):
   Create a `.env.local` file in the frontend directory:
   ```bash
   NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:8000
   ```

3. **Start the development server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**:
   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## Development

### Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run start` - Start production server
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint

### Project Structure

```
frontend/
├── app/                    # Next.js app router
│   ├── globals.css        # Global styles
│   ├── layout.tsx         # Root layout
│   └── page.tsx           # Home page
├── components/            # React components
│   ├── chat/             # Chat-specific components
│   │   ├── ChatContainer.tsx
│   │   ├── ChatInput.tsx
│   │   ├── ChatMessage.tsx
│   │   ├── ChatSidebar.tsx
│   │   └── SettingsModal.tsx
│   └── ui/               # Reusable UI components
│       ├── Button.tsx
│       ├── Input.tsx
│       ├── Select.tsx
│       └── Textarea.tsx
├── lib/                  # Utility functions
│   ├── api.ts           # API communication
│   └── utils.ts         # Helper functions
├── types/               # TypeScript type definitions
│   └── chat.ts
└── public/              # Static assets
```

## Deployment

### Vercel (Recommended)

1. **Push your code** to a Git repository (GitHub, GitLab, etc.)

2. **Connect to Vercel**:
   - Go to [vercel.com](https://vercel.com)
   - Import your repository
   - Vercel will automatically detect Next.js and configure the build

3. **Set environment variables** in Vercel dashboard:
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL` - Your production API URL

4. **Deploy**: Vercel will automatically deploy on every push to main branch

### Manual Deployment

1. **Build the application**:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

2. **Start the production server**:
   ```bash
   npm run start
   ```

### Environment Configuration

For production deployment, update the `vercel.json` file with your actual backend URL:

```json
{
  "rewrites": [
    {
      "source": "/api/:path*",
      "destination": "https://your-backend-url.com/api/:path*"
    }
  ]
}
```

## API Integration

The frontend communicates with your FastAPI backend at `/api/chat` endpoint. Make sure your backend:

1. **Accepts POST requests** to `/api/chat`
2. **Returns streaming responses** with `text/plain` content type
3. **Handles CORS** for cross-origin requests
4. **Provides health check** at `/api/health`

### Expected Request Format

```typescript
{
  model: string;
  messages: Array<{
    role: 'system' | 'user' | 'assistant';
    content: string;
  }>;
}
```

## Customization

### Styling

The application uses Tailwind CSS. You can customize:

- **Colors**: Edit `tailwind.config.js` theme colors
- **Components**: Modify component styles in `app/globals.css`
- **Layout**: Adjust responsive breakpoints and spacing

### Adding New Models

To add new AI models:

1. Update `AVAILABLE_MODELS` in `types/chat.ts`
2. The settings modal will automatically include new models

### Extending Features

- **File Upload**: Extend `ChatInput` component for document uploads
- **Voice Messages**: Add audio recording capabilities
- **Export Chats**: Implement chat export functionality
- **User Authentication**: Add login/signup flows

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **API Connection Error**:
   - Ensure your FastAPI backend is running on `http://localhost:8000`
   - Check CORS configuration in your backend
   - Verify the `/api/chat` endpoint exists

2. **Build Errors**:
   - Clear `.next` folder: `rm -rf .next`
   - Reinstall dependencies: `rm -rf node_modules && npm install`

3. **TypeScript Errors**:
   - Run `npm run lint` to identify issues
   - Check type definitions in `types/chat.ts`

### Browser Support

- Chrome 90+
- Firefox 88+
- Safari 14+
- Edge 90+

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

feat(settings): allow optional ChatGPT API key in settings modal, use per-request if set; make prompts optional; backend /api/chat supports per-request key

frontend/README.md, after:

# AI Chat Frontend

A modern, responsive chat interface built with Next.js 14+ and TypeScript for interacting with AI models through a FastAPI backend.

## Features

- **Collapsible Sidebar**: Manage multiple chat sessions with titles and dates
- **Real-time Streaming**: See AI responses as they're being generated
- **Image Support**: Upload and view images in conversations with lightbox
- **Settings Management**: Configure developer prompts, system prompts, and model selection
- **Mobile-First Design**: Responsive layout that works on all devices
- **Accessibility**: WCAG-compliant with proper ARIA labels and keyboard navigation
- **Local Storage**: Persists chat sessions and settings locally

## New Features

- The settings modal now allows you to enter an optional ChatGPT API key. If set, this key will be used for your requests instead of the default key configured on the backend.
- The Developer Prompt and System Prompt fields in the settings modal are now optional.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ 
- npm or yarn
- FastAPI backend running on `http://localhost:8000`

## Installation

1. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm install
   ```

2. **Set up environment variables** (optional):
   Create a `.env.local` file in the frontend directory:
   ```bash
   NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:8000
   ```

3. **Start the development server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**:
   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## Development

### Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run start` - Start production server
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint

### Project Structure

```
frontend/
├── app/                    # Next.js app router
│   ├── globals.css        # Global styles
│   ├── layout.tsx         # Root layout
│   └── page.tsx           # Home page
├── components/            # React components
│   ├── chat/             # Chat-specific components
│   │   ├── ChatContainer.tsx
│   │   ├── ChatInput.tsx
│   │   ├── ChatMessage.tsx
│   │   ├── ChatSidebar.tsx
│   │   └── SettingsModal.tsx
│   └── ui/               # Reusable UI components
│       ├── Button.tsx
│       ├── Input.tsx
│       ├── Select.tsx
│       └── Textarea.tsx
├── lib/                  # Utility functions
│   ├── api.ts           # API communication
│   └── utils.ts         # Helper functions
├── types/               # TypeScript type definitions
│   └── chat.ts
└── public/              # Static assets
```

## Deployment

### Vercel (Recommended)

1. **Push your code** to a Git repository (GitHub, GitLab, etc.)

2. **Connect to Vercel**:
   - Go to [vercel.com](https://vercel.com)
   - Import your repository
   - Vercel will automatically detect Next.js and configure the build

3. **Set environment variables** in Vercel dashboard:
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL` - Your production API URL

4. **Deploy**: Vercel will automatically deploy on every push to main branch

### Manual Deployment

1. **Build the application**:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

2. **Start the production server**:
   ```bash
   npm run start
   ```

### Environment Configuration

For production deployment, update the `vercel.json` file with your actual backend URL:

```json
{
  "rewrites": [
    {
      "source": "/api/:path*",
      "destination": "https://your-backend-url.com/api/:path*"
    }
  ]
}
```

## API Integration

The frontend communicates with your FastAPI backend at `/api/chat` endpoint. Make sure your backend:

1. **Accepts POST requests** to `/api/chat`
2. **Returns streaming responses** with `text/plain` content type
3. **Handles CORS** for cross-origin requests
4. **Provides health check** at `/api/health`

### Expected Request Format

```typescript
{
  model: string;
  messages: Array<{
    role: 'system' | 'user' | 'assistant';
    content: string;
  }>;
}
```

## Customization

### Styling

The application uses Tailwind CSS. You can customize:

- **Colors**: Edit `tailwind.config.js` theme colors
- **Components**: Modify component styles in `app/globals.css`
- **Layout**: Adjust responsive breakpoints and spacing

### Adding New Models

To add new AI models:

1. Update `AVAILABLE_MODELS` in `types/chat.ts`
2. The settings modal will automatically include new models

### Extending Features

- **File Upload**: Extend `ChatInput` component for document uploads
- **Voice Messages**: Add audio recording capabilities
- **Export Chats**: Implement chat export functionality
- **User Authentication**: Add login/signup flows

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **API Connection Error**:
   - Ensure your FastAPI backend is running on `http://localhost:8000`
   - Check CORS configuration in your backend
   - Verify the `/api/chat` endpoint exists

2. **Build Errors**:
   - Clear `.next` folder: `rm -rf .next`
   - Reinstall dependencies: `rm -rf node_modules && npm install`

3. **TypeScript Errors**:
   - Run `npm run lint` to identify issues
   - Check type definitions in `types/chat.ts`

### Browser Support

- Chrome 90+
- Firefox 88+
- Safari 14+
- Edge 90+

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
